I got to the mission part and got wrapped
up in the metaphysical question and
I was like, my god, I don't know.
[LAUGH] So I just stopped.
>> [LAUGH] Were you doing a mission for
your organization or for?
>> [LAUGH] No,
I was trying to do it for myself.
>> For yourself.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's a secret.
>> Why do I exist?
[LAUGH]
>> That's what I should do.
[LAUGH] That's a tactic.
All right, so sorry,
you said the strategy was tough.
Tell me a little bit about that.
>> I didn't know how to define it.
I guess I need more examples or
I don't know what the key
initiative would be.
I mean, would you kind of describe that as
this is the number one thing you should do
if you do nothing else or-
>> It can be a series of key initiatives.
There doesn't just have to be
one organizational strategy.
Here's the thing is that there
are different levels of strategy.
There's like operational strategy,
there's functional strategy.
So a lot of times when people talk about
strategy, an example they often use
is Southwest which is to deliver
the best flying experience for
the least possible money, right?
That was their operating
strategy that they went after,
it's there- it infuses their brand,
it infuses everything.
But from a functionalist perspective,
we're never involved in
the operating strategy unless maybe we're
a part of a two or three person team.
But if we're contracting
in with someone or
if we're with an organization with
more than 30 people, or 20, or 12,
or whatever, we in our roles are likely
not involved in operating strategy.
What we tend to deal with is more of
a functional strategy where we work
within a team that serves this very
specific function within an organization.
And so we may have different key
initiatives over the course of
a 9 months, or a year, or 15 months or
whatever that we're focused on.
A website launch can be a key strategic
initiative that we've decided from
a strategic perspective that we have to
just burn our website to the ground and
redo it.
We can decide from a key strategic
initiative that we are going to
enter into interactive digital
experience production and-
>> So it can be short term.
>> Strategy is usually goals or
longer term strategy.
When you think about you're getting to
your goal as a marathon, strategies
are like your sprint, so they are key,
meaningful- they're key initiatives
to create meaningful change that will
move you along your path to the goal.
Okay, great.
What else besides existential crises?
How many of you know what these
are within your day to day work?
You do?
Well, there's only four of you.
[LAUGH] Great, have you guys actually
documented these and defined them?
>> Yeah, so we have a number of
documents when it comes to sort of
the overall mission where we
have kind of the marketing plan.
And so we also have a quarterly
planning session where we say,
what are our objectives this quarter?
And then a monthly check in that says,
okay, our objectives this quarter for
Q1 were all of these things,
where are they?
Who is responsible for them?
What are blocked?
And then so every month we kind
of check in with those quarterly
objectives as a team, and
make sure they're in the right hands.
That slipped by, and so, the key for
us is at the beginning of the quarter,
what can we realistically accomplish?
And then what do we have to push into Q2,
and
then on the monthly check ins,
we kind of check things off.
Make sure they're in the right hands and
then bump certain things to Q2 or
take things off of Q2 and
put them back into Q1 because actually,
they're more- we've decided as a team,
they're more important.
It's sort of like breaking things
into quarterly objectives.
Then monthly check ins.
And then we have a weekly standup
where we kind of are kind of say-
>> That's a pretty steady cadence.
>> Yeah.
>> Do other people have that
sort of regular cadence?
No?
Where do you guys met?
How many of you are full
time with organizations?
Just a few of you.
Do you know what your
performance is measured on?
No?
>> Delivery.
>> Delivery, whether or not you deliver.
>> [LAUGH]
>> A lot of this actually does fall under
kind of the Agile process.
So when I was with the company that that's
what we did in a kind of blinders way,
I mean, for specific projects.
This is a lot of things that we did do,
especially the way that was described here
too, that we did have daily meetings,
what are your pain points where you're
trying to achieve that kind of thing.
So, that's one thing I find really
interesting about this is it does kind of
feel like the Agile process.
>> Yeah.
>> But at the last company
that I was at then, no.
It was all that, what you just described
for me then that was a big secret
that was kept in a locked box and
I had no access to, so yeah.
>> That for me makes it tough
to go to bed in the morning.
If I'm just like, why am I doing this?
I have eight employees and
we hit a total- I mean,
we're a really happy,
fun group of people but we did and
especially because it was winter kind of
hit a slump until I kind of went back and
took the time to our team
because it's cobblers kids.
I spent the go barefoot, I spent all
my time talking about this stuff.
And then when it comes
to my own organization,
I'm just like, I'm too tired.
But it wasn't until I went back and
sort of said, here's what I'm seeing for
the next 12 to 18 months that
people started to pick up and
feel reinvested I think.
Let's move on because I wanna talk
a bit- wow, well, we already did this.
So this is sort of my message here is
that if you don't know, it's okay to ask.
It's okay to say, hey, have manager,
has leadership shared anything
with you around this stuff?
It would be helpful for me to know,
as I'm continuing to kind of push myself
in performance, or to think about how
I can use my work to sort of help move us
in a good direction as an organization,
or even our team, what are our
larger arrows pointing us towards?
And maybe they have it, maybe they don't.
And if they don't have it, I guarantee the
response is gonna be like, I know, right?
Or even to suggest, hey,
I think it might be a cool exercise for
us to go through this as a team.
Just because we know we
have all of this stuff.
It's all a bunch of moving parts, but
sometimes just to see it all in one
place can be extremely satisfying, and
give you kind of like- shore you
up in your day to day performance.